Today Laravel Is one of the popular php framework. Many developers are learning this framework and use it for creating web application. Here in this article I am going to share 50 best laravel interview questions that i have collected personally for my job preparation.  
### 1. What is MVC in laravel?
MVC is a software architecture that separates domain/application/business logic from the rest of the user interface. It does this by separating the application into three parts: the model, the view, and the controller. The model manages fundamental behaviors and data of the application.

### 2. What is Laravel?
Laravel is a PHP based web-framework for building high-end web applications using its significant and graceful syntaxes.

### 3. What is laravel tinker?
Laravel artisan's tinker is a repl (read-eval-print loop). A repl translates to read-eval-print-loop , and it is an interactive language shell. 

### 4. What is laravel homestead?
Laravel Homestead is an official, pre-packaged Vagrant "box" that provides you a wonderful development environment without requiring you to install PHP, HHVM, a web server, and any other server software on your local machine.

### 5. What is laravel eloquent?
Laravel's Eloquent object-relational mapper (ORM) is one of the most-loved features of the framework. Eloquent makes it easy to connect to relational data in a database and work with it using Object-Oriented models in your Laravel app. It is simple to setup, easy to use, and packs a lot of power.

### 6. What is laravel passport?
Laravel Passport is native OAuth 2 server for Laravel apps. Like Cashier and Scout, you'll bring it into your app with Composer. It uses the League OAuth2 Server package as a dependency but provides a simple, easy-to-learn and easy-to-implement syntax.

### 7. What is laravel nova?
Laravel Nova is a new tool in the line of Laravel Spark, Laravel Cashier, and Laravel Passport that you can pull into your Laravel apps. 

### 8. What is laravel spark?
Spark is a Laravel package that provides scaffolding for all of the stuff you don't want to code.

### 9. What is namespace in laravel?
A name space allows you to partition code into logical groups by defining them into their own "namespace".Namespaces can be defined as a class of elements in which each element has a unique name to that associated class. It may be shared with elements in other classes.

### 10. Explain validations in laravel?
Laravel provides several different ways to validate your application incoming data.By default Laravel’s base controller class uses a ValidatesRequests trait which provides a convenient method to validate all incoming HTTP requests coming from client.You can also validate data in laravel by creating Form Request.

### 11. What are named routes in Laravel?
Named routing is another amazing feature of Laravel framework. Named routes allow referring to routes when generating redirects or Url’s more comfortably.

### 12. Explain validations in Laravel?
Laravel provides several different ways to validate your application incoming data.By default Laravel’s base controller class uses a ValidatesRequests trait which provides a convenient method to validate all incoming HTTP requests coming from client.You can also validate data in laravel by creating Form Request.

### 13. Explain Laravel’s service container?
One of the most powerful feature of Laravel is its Service Container. It is a powerful tool for resolving class dependencies and performing dependency injection in Laravel.
Dependency injection is a fancy phrase that essentially means class dependencies are "injected" into the class via the constructor or, in some cases, "setter" methods.

### 14. What is middleware in Laravel?
Middleware operates as a bridge and filtering mechanism between a request and response. It verifies the authentication of the application users and redirects them according to the authentication results. We can create a middleware in Laravel by executing the following command.

### 15. What is reverse Routing in Laravel?
Reverse routing is generated URL’s based totally on route. It makes our application so a lot greater flexible.

### 16. How to get data between two dates in Laravel?
we can use **whereBetween()** function to get data between two dates.

### 17. How to use mail() in laravel?
Laravel allows us to store email messages in our views files. For example, to manage our emails, we can create an email directory within our **resources/views** directory.

### 18. Explain Events in laravel?
Laravel events provide a simple observer implementation, allowing you to subscribe and listen for various events that occur in your application.

### 19. Explain laravel cookies?
Laravel cookies are created using the withCookie() method of a response instance of Illuminate\Http\Response class. All the Cookies generated by the laravel framework are encrypted and signed using an authentication token so that they can't be modified by the client.

### 20. Explain validations in laravel?
Validation is the most important aspect while designing an application. It validates the incoming data. By default, base controller class uses a ValidatesRequests trait which provides a convenient method to validate incoming HTTP requests with a variety of powerful validation rules.

### 21. What is a Controller?
A controller is the "C" in the "MVC" (Model-View-Controller) architecture, which is what Laravel is based on.

### 22. How will you register service providers?
You can register service providers in the config/app.php configuration file that contains an array where you can mention the service provider class name.

### 23. What is a composer?
A composer is a dependency manager in PHP. It manages the dependencies which are required for a project. It means that the composer will pull in all the necessary libraries, dependencies, and manage all at a single place.

### 24. How we can clear cache in Laravel?
We can clear cache in Laravel by calling URL in the browser. You can simply place the below code in your routes/web. php file of Laravel application. Then access this URL in the browser to clear the cache of Laravel application.

### 25. What do you understand by Unit testing?
In Laravel, there are two ways to test your app. One is with Unit testing while other is with Feature testing. Unit testing allows to test your classes models, controllers etc,

### 26. What are events in laravel?
Events can be various actions that occur within an application such as email notifications, logging, user sign up, CRUD operations etc. Event classes are typically stored in the app/Events directory, while their listeners are stored in app/Listeners .

### 27. What is listener in laravel?
Listeners handle all the activities mentioned in an event that is being registered. The artisan command event:generate creates all the listeners in the app/listeners directory. The Listeners folder includes a file EventListener. php which has all the methods required for handling listeners.

### 28. What is service provider in laravel?
Service providers are the central place of all Laravel application bootstrapping. Service providers are the central place to configure your application. If you open the config/app. php file included with Laravel, you will see a providers array.

### 29. What is laravel horizon?
Laravel Horizon is software to "supercharge your queues with a beautiful dashboard and code-driven configuration.". Laravel Horizon is designed to make it easy monitor your queues from a web interface and receive notifications when things go wrong.

### 30. What is laravel pusher?
Pusher is a hosted service that makes it super-easy to add real-time data and functionality to web and mobile applications.

### 31. Is laravel a CMS?
Based on Laravel. October is a free, open-source, self-hosted CMS platform based on the Laravel PHP Framework.

### 32. What is laravel PHP?
Laravel is a free, open-source PHP web framework, created by Taylor Otwell and intended for the development of web applications following the model–view–controller (MVC) architectural pattern and based on Symfony.

### 33. What is Blade laravel?
Blade is the simple, yet powerful templating engine provided with Laravel. Unlike other popular PHP templating engines, Blade does not restrict you from using plain PHP code in your views.

### 34. What is yield laravel?
Blade is the in built templating engine for Laravel framework.Blade is a @yield('content') is used to display the contents of content.

### 35. What is laravel eloquent?
The Eloquent ORM included with Laravel provides a beautiful, simple ActiveRecord implementation for working with your database. Each database table has a corresponding "Model" which is used to interact with that table.

### 36. What is pusher API?
Pusher is a simple hosted API for quickly, easily and securely adding realtime bi-directional functionality via WebSockets to web and mobile apps, or any other Internet connected device.

### 37. What is Luman?
Lumen is a new project from Laravel creator Taylor Otwell. It's a "micro-framework", meaning it's a smaller, faster, leaner version of a full web application framework. It competes other popular micro-frameworks, Slim and Silex.

### 38. What is HTTP middleware?
HTTP middleware provide a convenient mechanism for filtering HTTP requests entering your application. middleware can be written to perform a variety of tasks besides authentication.

### 39. Explain Migrations in Laravel?
Laravel Migrations are like version control for the database, allowing a team to easily modify and share the application’s database schema. Migrations are typically paired with Laravel’s schema builder to easily build the application’s database schema.

### 40. What is Query Builder in laravel?
In laravel Query Builder is a browser-based graphical tool that allows users to create and edit filters without them having to become a developer and learn the DataSift Curated Stream Definition Language (CSDL).

### 41. What is chunk in laravel?
There is a handy function to "chunk" your database query results into smaller groups of data. Very useful when doing grids in html/css or whenever you need to break up a pile of data in to smaller chunks.

### 42. What is the use of pluck in laravel?
Pluck method is part of the Laravel Collections. The pluck helper method is used to retrieve a list of specific values from a given $array. It is most useful when used against arrays of objects, but will also work with arrays just as well.

### 43. What is raw expression in laravel?
Raw Expressions allow you to tell the query builder that you want to use what you entered and not get processed or manipulate before running the query against the database.

### 44. What is Closure in Laravel?
A Closure is an anonymous function. Closures are often used as callback methods and can be used as a parameter in a function.

### 45. What is Laravel Vapor?
It is a serverless deployment platform that is powered by AWS.Laravel Vapor provides on-demand auto-scaling with zero server maintenance.

### 46. What is Singleton design pattern in laravel?
Singleton pattern in laravel is when a class has a single instance of itself. Meaning that whenver I want to use an instance of the class, I'm using the same instance.

### 47. What is Active Record in Laravel?
Active Record Implementation is an architectural pattern found in software engineering that stores in-memory object data in relational databases. Active Record facilitates the creation and use of business objects whose data is required to persistent in the database. Laravel implements Active Records by Eloquent ORM.

### 48. What is Dependency injection used in Laravel?
Dependency injection is when you pass as parameter an object that follows a it is used to enforce some method of the injected class in your code example.

### 49. What is IoC container in Laravel?
 IoC container in Laravel, is a technique that allows control to be inverted when compared to classical procedural code. Laravel's IoC container is one of the most used Laravel features, yet is probably the least understood.
 
**50. How to create real time sitemap.xml file in Laravel?**
Generate a Simple XML Sitemap Using Laravel. use UTF-8 encoding. begin with an opening <urlset> tag and end with a closing </urlset> tag. specify the namespace (protocol standard) within the <urlset> tag. include a <url> entry for each URL, as a parent XML tag. include a <loc> child entry for each <url> parent tag.
    
Thanks For reading. Hope these questions help you to [crack your next Laravel Interview](https://www.howtocrackaninterview.com/)
    
##     References
    
*    [Laravel interview Questions Github](https://gist.github.com/lukevers/32566dd2c7e6b02fa0d2)    
*    [ Laravel Interview Questions On Medium](https://medium.com/@Sharad35386442/top-30-laravel-interview-questions-and-answers-de0aa356f121)
*    [ Laravel Interview Questions Quora](https://www.quora.com/What-are-the-common-Laravel-interview-questions)
*    [ Online Laravel Interview Questions](https://www.onlineinterviewquestions.com/laravel-interview-questions/)
*    [Laravel interview Questions Dev.to](https://dev.to/sharadtricks/laravel-interview-questions-2b8n)
*    [ 70 laravel interview Questions DevDojo](https://devdojo.com/articles/70-best-laravel-interview-questions-and-answers)
*    [ Best Laravel Interview Questions](http://www.laravelinterviewquestions.com/blog/laravel-interview-questions-nja/)
*    [ All Top Laravel Interview Questions for Preparation](https://www.alltopinterviewquestions.com/laravel-interview-questions/)
*    [30 Basic Laravel developers interview Questions](https://www.courseya.com/laravel-interview-questions/) 
*    [ Popular interview Questions on Laravel Framework](https://www.interviewqueries.com/laravel-interview-questions)