Kick-starting with the crypto space can be tiring with a lot of technical aspects. Bitcoin was the first-ever cryptocurrency that has been invented for public use. The cryptocurrencies and underlying blockchain can be hard to understand for common people who are technically inclined. With modernized apps diving into our real-life, the cryptocurrencies can be reliable payment methods for every people. 

The [**crypto wallet development services**](https://www.blockchainfirm.io/blockchain-wallet-development-company) pack the applications with advanced features that can enhance the trading experience of crypto investors. In this blog, let’s excavate the secret behind the fluctuation of cryptocurrency wallet address!

Why cryptocurrency wallet address fluctuates after every transaction?
Once you initiate a crypto transaction from your wallet, the specified amount of crypto coins are legally signed-off to the recipient’s wallet address in the blockchain network. The remaining crypto coins in the sender’s wallet address are transferred to the new “change” address associated with the same wallet. The blockchain network peers verify and approve the transfer of ownership. Once the crypto coins are transferred to the recipient address, and the transaction is confirmed, the sender’s wallet address is modified to the “change” address. The change address of the sender’s crypto wallet comes into place only when the transaction is confirmed by the miner nodes of the blockchain network; otherwise, the wallet address is reverted.

Does the wallet address fluctuate for every cryptocurrency?
Bitcoin and Bitcoin Cash wallets fluctuate their public address for every transaction, whereas Ethereum and other wallets don’t. However, many crypto investors own customiz[**ed multi-cryptocurrency wall**](https://www.blockchainfirm.io/blockchain-multicurrency-wallet)et with advanced features. You can opt for the blockchain wallet development company to add-on the change wallet address feature after every crypto transaction performed with customized application. The change address feature can be an extra layer of protection to escape from the prying eyes. 

The sender’s wallet address which was prevailing before change address remains associated with the wallet. They can be utilized for receiving funds, but sticking with real-time crypto wallet address is a safer choice!

Wrap-up!
Maintaining the crypto assets securely in the wallet becomes challenging in this digital era. The crypto coins are virtual assets and can never be seen anywhere other than your wallets. Hence, hold a personalized multi-cryptocurrency wallet with the preferable coins, advanced security and trading features!