Vedaoils is one of the best essential oils, **[Soap manufacturers & Suppliers in India](https://www.vedaoils.com/collections/melt-and-pour-soap-base)**. Vedaoils provides 100 % pure organic Essential Oils & Soap base in India. We are India's Largest manufacturer and supplier of natural essential oils. You can also buy melt and pour soap base at wholesale prices on our online store!

You can find many sellers for essential oils online, however most of them don't sell pure essential oils. It is difficult and expensive to manufacture pure essential oils, and many manufacturers sell diluted or synthetic essential oils. VedaOils owns its own distillation plant for pure essential oils. We have a highly trained technical staff and lab for quality check and assurance. Because of directly manufacturing the oils and not buying from others, we are able to offer the cheapest and best prices to you. Other manufacturers and suppliers dilute their essential oils with cheaper carrier oils to make bigger profits. However if you really want to get the benefits of these aromatherapy oils for your skin, hair and body, it is important to buy only pure natural oils. If you buy cheap essential oils which are diluted or synthetic, then you will not be able to get the full benefits. 

**[PURE ESSENTIAL OILS](https://www.vedaoils.com/collections/essential-oils)**

We have all the pure steam distilled essential oils that you need for soap making, candle making or aromatherapy like lavender oil, peppermint oil, tea tree oil, lemon oil, eucalyptus oil, and many more. Check our online selection and place your order today to get the best rates!